#Guide to reading stele 1#

Each year should be understood as an individual document. This is better than thinking of Stele 1 itself as a single document, since it was inscribed on an annual basis over the course of many years. Each heading gives the relative number of the year (i.e.: first, second) and the name of the secretary. 

Year 1 was inscribed at the top of Stele 1's obverse face. Its header is four lines long. The list contains six columns on the obverse face with 24 rows in each (the numbering for the columns starts at line 5 to account for the header). In each column, the place name (written as the plural name of its people) is inscribed first on the left side of the column. The corresponding payment amount is inscribed on the right side of the same column. The place name and its payment amount are consistently separated in Year 1 by a punctuation mark that is two vertically stacked dots. 


In Year 1 there are multiple instances (Column II lines 25-26, Column IV lines 4-5, Column IV lines 12-13, Column IV lines 17-18, Column IV lines 19-20, Column V lines 3-4, Column V lines 4-5, Column V lines 11-12)  of long place names that are written across two separate lines (e.g.: "halikar" on line 12 and "nasses" on line 13). However, there is no similar instance of a single long place name that was arbitrarily divided in two parts on two lines after Year 1. After year 1, the only instances when two lines are used for a single entry occur when there is a copayment (ie: two distinct places pay together, with one name on each line) and when there is a place name that contains multiple words. For example, in column VI, line 7 contains "Oine" and line 8 "in Ikaros." The amount is also split across these two lines, but together lines 7 and 8 constitute a single entry. This practice of splitting a "compound" name across two lines according to their inherent word divisions is common throughout the lists but the practice of simply splitting a long name halfway and inscribing it on two separate lines does not continue after Year 1. This must be the reason for the abbreviated forms in Year 2, Column X. 


Year 2 is the only other list inscribed on two faces. But unlike Year 1 which has a postscript on its right lateral face, Year 2's right lateral face is a continuation of its list and contains columns VIII, IX, and X. Its header is one line long and each column has 17 entries. Column X is shorter with only 10 entries and there is preserved blank space beneath the tenth entry on stone 11 before the start of year 8. Three entries in Column X (lines 5, 6, and 11) appear to be abbreviated because the stonecutter ran out of room on the right lateral face. Although since there is plenty of spare space at the end of Column X, the stonecutter seemingly could have used two lines to write the names instead of abbreviating them. However, I think the answer must be that the convention changed and it was no longer for the stonecutter to allow a single place name to run over onto a second line when it was not a compound name.  

In Year 2 Column VI, line 14 the amount reads 5 drachmae, 2 drachmae, and 3 obols equalling 45 obols. But the ATL editors believe that the stonecutter mistakenly inscribed 3 obols instead of 1 drachma and two obols, which would equal 50 obols. I have chosen to leave the character as it appears on the stone and in their drawings, as an obol.   

Year 3 is inscribed on the obverse face only. It has a single line header and 5 columns each with 30 entries. In Year 3, Column II, lines 8 & 9 there is one amount in the middle of the two lines. Two places (Skione and Therambos) pay together, so instead of listing the payment on the first line and leaving the second line blank, the stonecutter chose to inscribe the amount between the two lines. In Year 2 these same two places also pay together, but instead of the amount straddling two lines, it is listed on the first line with Skione and the second line is left blank. 

Year 4 is inscribed on the obverse face only, and each of its five columns has 32 lines. There is no bottom of a column preserved, so the list was most likely longer. 

Year 5 is also inscribed on the obverse face only, and each of its five columns has 40 lines. 

Year 6 is missing; I do not mean that it is not extant, but that it was never inscribed in the first place. The end of Year 5 clearly and the heading of Year 7 are both extant enough to show definitively that there was not another list between them. 

Year 7 has four columns with 38 lines each and is inscribed on the obverse face only. In Column III, from lines 28-32 there is a large "copayment" of six different places paying together. In line 28 there is a place (most likely ΕΡΥΘΡΑΙΟΙ but only ΟΙ is preserved) that is consistent with the typical letter size of the list. But lines 29-32 were inscribed using significantly smaller letters. Erythrai payed for itself and for Polichne, while Sidousa, Boutheia, Elaiousa, and Pteleon all payed for themselves. These six places formed one joint payment; the amount is not preserved on the stone, but ATL proposes 900 drachmae. In Year 7, Column IV, line 2 the last 4 obols of the payment for Lampsakos are written slightly underneath the rest of the payment. 

Year 8 is inscribed on the right lateral face only. It has 2 columns with 113 lines each, but the bottom of neither column is preserved. Its header is four lines long. Year 8 begins by repeating the names of Year 7 in a similar order. In Column 1, lines 58-64, there is a large group payment by six members of the Erythrai syntely. On line 60, there is a sentence that extends across Column I into Column II. I have edited the entire line in Column I because that is where it belongs semantically, and have put a `<gap>` in Column II to show that there is not another entry in that space. This large group entry has a unique organization. The stonecutter inscribed at least one character on each line of the group entry, so that the entire amount is  distributed across seven lines. Byzantion is listed in line 103 and repeated immediately under in line 104.  In each line, the amount is split with some numerals on the left side of the place name (where they typically go) and the right side of the place name. We can be sure that the numerals on the right side belong with Byzantion and not another entry in Column 2 because there are punctuation marks separating them. 

The first evidence for partial payments and arrears occurs in Year 8. Column 5 is, at least partially, a "complementary appendix" listing several names that are already listed earlier for the same year as well as arrears. 