
# Introduction #

In 478/7 B.C., in response to Persia's remarkably failed attempts to invade Greece in 490 and 480 B.C., a group of Greek states formed a naval alliance to provide for their common defence. Member states either contributed triremes (specialized war ships) or φόρος/phoros (tribute) to the alliance. The league's treasury was originally kept on the island of Delos, which is where the alliance's modern name, the Delian League, derives from. After the treasury was moved to Athens (although not necessarily starting the same year), the Athenians started keeping records of the ἀπαρχαί/*aparchai* (“first-fruits”), one sixtieth of the total tribute paid, which was given to Athena. The Athenian Tribute Quota Lists record the *aparchai* contributed by each member state. {>>We do need some kind of in-line reference to a source or sources for this summary.<<}
{>>Expand here:  state explicitly that this makes the quota lists a uniquely important source for our understanding of the trasnformation of the League of the Greeks into an Athenian Empire.<<}

In order to reassess Athenian imperial tribute, I went back to the primary evidence: the Athenian Tribute Quota Lists. These are {>>exceptionally?<<} complex and fragmentary inscriptions from the fifth century B.C. Stele 1, the massive stone recording the first N years of tribute quota payments,{>>check what the last payment year on stele 1 is...<<} is by far the largest block of marble ever used for an inscription in Athens.{>>inline reference to Tracy for that factoid?<<} They were displayed publicly on the Acropolis, and were meant to be permanent records. Today the inscriptions are housed in the Epigraphic Museum in Athens where theystand  reconstructed with plaster from hundreds of stone fragments. My research has focused on the first eight years of the lists, which make up the entire front face of this stele and the right lateral face of Stele 1 and is some of the most extensively preserved material. 

Since the evidence for the tribute is fragmentary by nature, it is necessary for an edition to indicate explicitly what is and is not preserved. Since there are so many lacunae, partial letters, and unclear readings, the ability to refer to the visual evidence of the stones is essential. 
There is a tendency for discussions of the quota lists to separate questions concerning the implications of the tribute's role in the “Athenian Empire” from an {>>epigraphic?<<}examination of the visual evidence for tribute. In this way restorations are proposed based on other restorations, and reasoning can quickly become circular. This is mostly because the Athenian Tribute Quota Lists are extraordinarily difficult to work with.  

The quota lists are difficult to work with not only because they are so fragmentary, but also because {~~they~>their contents~~} are  multidimensional. The data include {~~chronology, geography~>chronological and geographic references~~}, numerical figures, records of group payments, multiple payments by the same state, late and  partial payments, etc. {++

++}The Athenian Tribute Quota Lists are so complex and so crucial to our understanding of the fifth century B.C. that they demand a new approach. {>>Make this the place to  state explicitly that we need a new kind of edition that addresses the points you just made, ie, one that explicitly records information about the state of preservation, and that incorporates the most complete visual record possible in the edition.  State explicitly that this is only possible with a newly conceived digital edtion.<<}{==This is why I decided to go back to the primary source evidence for the inscriptions and study the stones themselves. When I was studying abroad in Athens, I got permission to study and photograph the inscriptions at the Epigraphic Museum. My original photos are the only readily available photos of the material and I created my editions of the first eight years by editing the source text directly from this primary photographic evidence.==}{>>move this to follow the discussion of "why digital"<<}

In 1949 the inscriptions were edited and published in four volumes called the *The Athenian Tribute Lists* by Benjamin Dean Meritt, H. T. Wade-Gery,  and Malcolm Francis McGregor (abbreviated *ATL* hereafter). These books have been the basis for all scholarship on the Athenian Tribute Quota Lists since, but even this lavish folio-sized series runs into inherent limitations of the print medium. Apart from an occasional photograph, the edited text is completely separate from the visual evidence. A book is not especially conducive to coordinating photographs with edited text. Restorations are printed alongside extant text, and although differentiated, cannot be disentangled from the extant text. The format forces the reader to trust the editors' reading of the stone, and makes it hard to assess the editors' restorations. 

A digital edition can address these issues. All edited text can be viewed directly alongside the photos forming the basis of the edition. And since the digital text encodes which readings are restored,readers can choose to hide or view restorations according to their needs. This allows new interpretations to be formed based on the primary evidence rather than off of previous editorial choices (although it does not preclude those types of interpretations either). Just as valuable are the ways in which a digital edition supports reorganizing the data for visualization and innovative analyses. For example, seeing a list of payment records in sequential order can lead to an understanding of patterns from year to year. Seeing this sequence projected on a map can lead to further insight about any geographical patterns. 

A digital edition can also facilitate the study of the inscriptions by integrating its varied and complex contents. If you are reading the edition of Year 1 in Volume II of The Athenian Tribute Lists and want to look up a place name, you must look it up in the gazetteer in Volume I. But in the digital edition, the map of member states and the edited text are linked, so that going from one to another only takes one click. While this may sound trivial, when working with data sets this large and complex, ease of access to the information is {==key==}{>>different word?  a little more formal term?<<}. 

My work would not have been possible without the work of the editors of the *The Athenian Tribute Lists*. And although I have used and have the utmost respect for their work, I have been determined not to  yield blindly{>>pedantic to insist on no split infinitives, but I don't think it hurts here<<} to their authority. 
For example, I have chosen to refer to each document as “Year 1” instead of their “454 B.C.” This is both to avoid problems with chronology and to be consistent with the way the text refers to itself. The only exception to putting complete faith in their authority has been the arrangement of the stones in the stelae, which I used as the starting point for my research. I have necessarily had to take for granted the arrangement of the stone fragments on the stelae in the Epigraphic Museum. I have set out to reimagine the study of the Athenian Tribute Quota Lists from the ground up, but a complete and even more comprehensive approach would require taking apart the reconstruction of Stele 1 in the Epigraphic Museum and examining the physical relationships of the stones to one another. {>>cite Stroud essay?<<}
